Hey guys.
Marcello here with you for another lesson.
And today we'll continue on our overview on how to get your film ready for Gutenberg.
This new content creation experience in WordPress in today's lesson will start making some changes to
our think files.
You begin to understand the connections between your theme and Gutenberg and what you need to do if
you want your thing to get the most out of the new editor.
So let's begin the first cool thing we're going to do today is to enable a new Gutenberg future.
This future is called Wide images and allows you to add two more types of image alignments to some of
the blocks.
Not all of them but some important ones.
And those two alignments are called respectively a line wide and a line foo for which you have a visual
idea of what I'm talking about.
We're going to grab a test wordpress installation.
This is not the one we'll be working with today and I'll be showing these little details in practice.
So here we get an image block.
If I click this block you see here that besides the screen more common alignments I have two more if
I choose here the first one that says white with you see that the image becomes a little bigger so it
overrides the size of the main container they see.
Now if I click the other button for with you see that image expands to the end of the page.
Well this very cool feature can currently be applied to nine block types you see on the screen the name
of all of the blocks that at the moment accept wide and full alignment.
Possibly that number will increase the time and it may also be the case that some block generated by
some plugging as it can make use of them.
Anyway it makes no sense at all for me to show a list here because it will surely be outdated.
Now I said earlier that we need to add support for this future if I want to use it.
In fact it's an opt in feature.
That's where your film comes in.
Do you remember that ad theme support function that we used extensively in the course.
Well now that you have those wide images enabled as well as other more advanced futures in Gutenberg
your film has to add support first for this as go ahead and open up the functions that BHP file
and here inside the function learn WP comfy here at the end of it.
We're going to add another support
so and theme support and we want your passive kind of support called a line hyphen wide let's say this
now and reload the editor.
Let's go back to the previous page and close this one here because this is just the test.
We have a lot of work to do today with this theme here
and here in the gallery block Look we already get the Chou alignment buttons if we click them look they
can already change the appearance of the gallery here in the editor.
However if I tried to preview the changes I made look
where are all the changes.
I just can't see them.
So that means there's something which you have to do if we inspect this image gallery block we see that.
What happens here is that WordPress automatically as here in the well element a couple of CSX classes
some of them such as these WP Block Gallery already implemented by default.
If you take a closer look you see that.
Most of this.
Says for the blocks are already implemented within this file here.
That's why most native blocks word out of the box as I mentioned before.
In this case as you see here they're coming from the Gutenberg plugin folder.
I believe they're after a wordpress 5.0.
They'll come from somewhere else.
So that's the case for all of the native futures but those are the more advanced futures the ones that
you need to add support you they always require you to add extra CSX in your theme so they can work
at least for now maybe in the future that will change.
Who knows.
But the good news is that a lot of people have been working to implement this and I found some good
examples of themes and tutorials about the subject in short all they need to do is to add this.
Yes.
As for those two classes line wide and a line flew in our films yes file so let's go ahead open file
issues here inside the themes folder learn W.P. CSX template that you and hear below.
I'm gonna pace this SS just to speed things up a bit and I'll be explaining to you what's going on here
first we need to make sure that this code here will only be applied when the viewport is at least 11
40 pixels.
Eleven 40 pixels is the width size of the container class of our theme.
You can go on and said also another other values here later and see which makes more sense to you.
Okay here for the two classes we set a margin button.
So nothing special here.
Now to center each of the two classes there is a handful of different solutions.
Some developers prefer to use negative margins for example but I prefer the solution here which use
a C assistance forms just center content.
With that it's enough that for each class you set the width relative to the viewport isn't the VW unit
for the wide alignment.
I set a value of seventy five VW which will correspond to 75 percent of the rendering area of the screen
which we call viewport and for the full with the value is 100 VW of course 100 percent
this an update.
Some students have been complaining that this USS Cole I indicate here is not working in longer.
However according to the tests I did the code still works perfectly but just in case I'm leaving here
an alternative solution.
You can see it on the screen in case the first solution doesn't work for you.
Pause the video and use this other solution.
Okay
all get safe and do some testing just reload the page.
Now we can see that the gallery is occupying 100 percent of the screen but if you resize the screen
look
if the width is smaller than eleven forty pixels as we defined it it's not so big
the same thing for the Y.
This we can test that directly here in the element of Spectre.
If you wish set here to wide
and now as you can see the width is only slightly larger than the container but only when the viewport
is at least eleven forty pixels Hossam but there is only one strange thing happening and maybe that's
a good invert bug if I try to do the same thing for video it won't work.
Let's add a YouTube video block for example
and I say it as a full with block well here in Gutenberg.
It looks nice but look what happens when we preview
Mm hmm.
Look at that.
That sucks to solve that for now we're gonna need some tricks but that you do for the next lesson.
See you then.